.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 shellkeep contributors
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.TH SHELLKEEP 1 "2026-03-26" "shellkeep 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shellkeep \- persistent SSH terminal sessions with tmux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shellkeep
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIuser\fR@]\fIhost\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shellkeep
is an SSH terminal emulator that persists sessions on the remote server
using tmux.  Sessions survive network interruptions, power failures, and
client restarts.  Window layout is saved per device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " PORT"
SSH port (default: 22).
.TP
.BI \-i " FILE"
Path to identity file (private key).
.TP
.BI \-l " USER"
Login user name.
.TP
.BI \-\-debug [= COMPONENT ]
Enable debug logging.  Optionally restrict to a component
(ssh, terminal, state, ui, tmux, sftp, general).
.TP
.BI \-\-trace [= COMPONENT ]
Enable trace logging (very verbose).
.TP
.BI \-\-config " PATH"
Path to configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-minimized
Start minimized to system tray.
.TP
.B \-\-crash\-report
Display crash report from previous run and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SHELLKEEP_LOG_LEVEL
Override log level (error, warn, info, debug, trace).
.TP
.B SHELLKEEP_LOG_COMPONENT
Comma-separated list of components to log.
.TP
.B SHELLKEEP_LOG_FILE
Override log file path.
.TP
.B SHELLKEEP_LOG_JOURNALD
Set to 1 to enable journald logging (if compiled with libsystemd).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/shellkeep/config.ini
User configuration file (INI format).
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/shellkeep/client-id
Auto-generated client identifier (UUID v4 or user-defined name).
.TP
.I $XDG_DATA_HOME/shellkeep/recent_connections.json
Recent connections list (max 50 entries).
.TP
.I $XDG_STATE_HOME/shellkeep/logs/shellkeep.log
Log file (rotated at 10 MB, max 5 files).
.TP
.I $XDG_STATE_HOME/shellkeep/crashes/
Crash dump directory.
.TP
.I ~/.terminal-state/<client-id>.json
Server-side state file (primary source of truth).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (see log for details).
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/shellkeep/shellkeep/issues
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-or-later.  See LICENSE file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR ssh_config (5)
